doc/user_guide/hardware/2.0.rst, before:

Akida 2.0 capabilities
======================

.. note::
       These details are relevant to Akida 2.0 IP-based solutions.

For compatibility with multiple possible hardware backends downstream, CNN2SNN and
the Akida simulator impose few constraints on layer dimensions. However, hardware
does have limits in this respect, which will be checked at the stage of mapping a
model to a specific device (real or virtual). This page details the limits for the
Akida 2.0 IP.

Please refer to `Akida V2 layers <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida-v2-layers>`__
for layers description.

.. note::
      Akida 2.0 supports using a Lookup Table (LUT) for activation functions other
      than ReLU for InputConv2D, Conv2D, DepthwiseConv2D, Conv2DTranspose and
      DepthwiseConv2DTranspose layers. However, Max Pooling is not compatible when
      LUT-based activations are used.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: InputConv2D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |>=5      |[5:384]   |1, 3        |
            +---------+----------+------------+
            +++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Input shape is (Width, Height, Channels).

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |**Kernel Size**|**Stride**       |**Type**   |
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |3×3            |1, 2, 3          |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |4×4            |1, 2, 3, 4       |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |5×5            |1, 2, 3, 4, 5    |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |7×7            |1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            +++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` 512 filters max.

        .. card::

            **Max Pooling size**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            (size, stride) supported combinations: (2, 2), (3, 2).

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+------------+--------------+
            |**Input**|**Weights** |**Activation**|
            +---------+------------+--------------+
            |8        | 8          |4, 8          |
            +---------+------------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Conv2D/DepthwiseConv2D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            |**Kernel Size**   |**Stride**|**Type**|
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            |1×1, 3×3, 5×5, 7×7|1, 2      |Same    |
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            ++++++++
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` 1×1 kernel is only available for Conv2D.
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Stride 2 is only supported with 3×3 kernels.

        .. card::

            **Max Pooling parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +--------+----------+
            |**Size**|**Stride**|
            +--------+----------+
            |2×2     |1, 2      |
            +--------+----------+
            ++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Pooling stride cannot be greater than pooling size,
            layer with max pooling must be followed by another `Conv2D
            <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida.Conv2D>`__ or `DepthwiseConv2D
            <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida.DepthwiseConv2D>`__ layer.

        .. card::

            **Global Average Pooling width**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            [1:64], Width x Height < 144
            ++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` The output of the convolution must have at least 1 rows.

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |4, 8       |4, 8       |4, 8          |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Conv2DTranspose/DepthwiseConv2DTranspose 

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------------+----------+--------+
            |**Kernel Size**|**Stride**|**Type**|
            +---------------+----------+--------+
            |3×3, 4×4       |2         |Same    |
            +---------------+----------+--------+

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |8          |8          |8             |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Dense1D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+---------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**WxHxC**|
            +---------+----------+---------+
            |1        |1         |<= 2048  |
            +---------+----------+---------+

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |4, 8       |4, 8       |4, 8          |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: BufferTempConv/DepthwiseBufferTempConv

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-------------+-----------+
            |**FIFO size**|**Filters**|
            +-------------+-----------+
            |[2:10]       |<=2048     |
            +-------------+-----------+

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |8          |8          |8             |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+

Commit message:

docs(user_guide/hardware): add a mention for dilation and groups

doc/user_guide/hardware/2.0.rst, after:

Akida 2.0 capabilities
======================

.. note::
       These details are relevant to Akida 2.0 IP-based solutions.

For compatibility with multiple possible hardware backends downstream, CNN2SNN and
the Akida simulator impose few constraints on layer dimensions. However, hardware
does have limits in this respect, which will be checked at the stage of mapping a
model to a specific device (real or virtual). This page details the limits for the
Akida 2.0 IP.

Please refer to `Akida V2 layers <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida-v2-layers>`__
for layers description.

.. note::
      Akida 2.0 supports using a Lookup Table (LUT) for activation functions other
      than ReLU for InputConv2D, Conv2D, DepthwiseConv2D, Conv2DTranspose and
      DepthwiseConv2DTranspose layers. However, Max Pooling is not compatible when
      LUT-based activations are used.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: InputConv2D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |>=5      |[5:384]   |1, 3        |
            +---------+----------+------------+
            +++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Input shape is (Width, Height, Channels).

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |**Kernel Size**|**Stride**       |**Type**   |
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |3×3            |1, 2, 3          |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |4×4            |1, 2, 3, 4       |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |5×5            |1, 2, 3, 4, 5    |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            |7×7            |1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 |Same, Valid|
            +---------------+-----------------+-----------+
            +++++++++
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` 512 filters max.
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Dilated (atrous) and grouped convolutions are not
              supported.

        .. card::

            **Max Pooling size**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            (size, stride) supported combinations: (2, 2), (3, 2).

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+------------+--------------+
            |**Input**|**Weights** |**Activation**|
            +---------+------------+--------------+
            |8        | 8          |4, 8          |
            +---------+------------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Conv2D/DepthwiseConv2D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            |**Kernel Size**   |**Stride**|**Type**|
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            |1×1, 3×3, 5×5, 7×7|1, 2      |Same    |
            +------------------+----------+--------+
            ++++++++
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` 1×1 kernel is only available for Conv2D.
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Stride 2 is only supported with 3×3 kernels.
            | :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Dilated (atrous) and grouped convolutions are
              not supported (except for depthwise convolution where groups=channels).

        .. card::

            **Max Pooling parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +--------+----------+
            |**Size**|**Stride**|
            +--------+----------+
            |2×2     |1, 2      |
            +--------+----------+
            ++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Pooling stride cannot be greater than pooling size,
            layer with max pooling must be followed by another `Conv2D
            <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida.Conv2D>`__ or `DepthwiseConv2D
            <../../api_reference/akida_apis.html#akida.DepthwiseConv2D>`__ layer.

        .. card::

            **Global Average Pooling width**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            [1:64], Width x Height < 144
            ++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` The output of the convolution must have at least 1 rows.

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |4, 8       |4, 8       |4, 8          |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Conv2DTranspose/DepthwiseConv2DTranspose 

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Convolution parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------------+----------+--------+
            |**Kernel Size**|**Stride**|**Type**|
            +---------------+----------+--------+
            |3×3, 4×4       |2         |Same    |
            +---------------+----------+--------+
            +++++++++
            :octicon:`report;1em;sd-text-warning` Dilated (atrous) and grouped convolutions are
            not supported (except for depthwise convolution where groups=channels).

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |8          |8          |8             |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: Dense1D

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+---------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**WxHxC**|
            +---------+----------+---------+
            |1        |1         |<= 2048  |
            +---------+----------+---------+

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |4, 8       |4, 8       |4, 8          |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+


    .. tab-item:: BufferTempConv/DepthwiseBufferTempConv

        .. card::

            **Input dimensions**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |**Width**|**Height**|**Channels**|
            +---------+----------+------------+
            |<=4096   |<=4096    |<= 2048     |
            +---------+----------+------------+

        .. card::

            **Parameters**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-------------+-----------+
            |**FIFO size**|**Filters**|
            +-------------+-----------+
            |[2:10]       |<=2048     |
            +-------------+-----------+

        .. card::

            **Quantization bitwidth**
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |**Input**  |**Weights**|**Activation**|
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
            |8          |8          |8             |
            +-----------+-----------+--------------+
